Hello friends
In this video let us discuss about applications of computers.
So computers have revolutionised many industries
and changed the world in many ways.
Let us understand the major applications of computers.
So computers are widely used in scientific research.
In early days, the scientific research was handled by humans
which may not provide 100% accuracy rate
And some research may lead to danger to human beings
such as in nuclear research, deep sea investigation etc
But today all those research are handled by computers
and computers can promise no error or much fewer errors.
Also it can handle very vast amount of data
and it can be processed very fast.
So humans can invest their time in other areas of research.
Now another very important application of computers
is in area of medicine
Computers are used increasingly in this area.
It can help in diagnosing diseases.
Patient medical history and records can be saved forever
which is very helpful in treatment
And it was very difficult in early days.
Keeping information of every person in physical documents.
Also hospitals have patient monitoring systems now
and computer applications are used in devices like hearing aid and so on
Computer intelligence is even used in surgical procedures
like we have Computer Assisted Surgery now
Another area is in business applications
Computers are able to store large amounts of data
which is a very convenient, cost effective and timesaving method.
It is also used for marketing, for communication, for research,
for employee and team management, for accounting,
And the list goes on.
The applications of computers can be seen from a very small business
to very large scale business
Now another important application of computers is in banking
Earlier were the days we had to go to the bank
the exact same branch where we have an account
and get the services.
Everything was physical.
We had to spend a lot of time to get even a small service
But what is scenario now?
we can get most of the services in just some clicks.
Electronic transactions, online banking, account management,ATM etc.
Things are now easier not only for customers
but also for the bank personnels.
Now can you imagine a bank without computers?
It is very hard.
With computers, the accuracy is improved.
There are no chances of errors.
Time and Cost - everything is improved
Now another area of computer application is in education
See how easy things are now.
We can find almost everything on the Internet.
with computers and Internet, we can get study materials,
watch tutorials, clear any doubt etc.
It is easier to refer to the Internet
than searching for information in these big reference books
It is easy to maintain soft copies of notes
than hand written notes.
The applications are endless.
Now another area of computer application is engineering.
This is something I think need no explanations.
We cannot imagine the engineering field without computers
We need computers to design, to test, to make changes in design,
to implement and to maintain.
We can find potential errors
and solve them before the product is actually built.
It is cost effective, time saving and so on
Now another area of computer application is in communication
We have the Internet, voice and video chatting, social networking.
We can access information and a lot more.
Even this communication between you and me
is not possible without computers
So what we should understand from this is,
computers are used in almost every field
and in this century computer is like oxygen for us
We cannot live without it
We are some how dependant on computers and its applications.